For many years, LDAP has been the dominant protocol for secure user authentication for on-premise directories.
Organizations have used LDAP to store and retrieve data from directory services and is a critical part of the blueprint for Active Directory (AD),
the most widely used directory service. Historically, LDAP provided an efficient level of security for organizations to deploy WPA2-Enterprise.

Lightweight Directory Access Protocol, or LDAP, is a software protocol that stores and arranges data to make it easily searchable.
The data can be any information about organizations, devices, or users stored in directories.
LDAP is the protocol used by servers to speak with on-premise directories.

Data is stored in a hierarchical structure called a Directory Information Tree (DIT),
which organizes data into a branching “tree” structure, making it easier for admins to navigate their directories,
find specific data, and administer user access policies.

The main purpose of LDAP is to serve as a central hub for authentication and authorization.
LDAP helps organizations store user credentials (username/password) and then access them later,
like when a user is attempting to access an LDAP-enabled application. That user’s credentials stored in LDAP authenticate the user.

User attributes can also be stored in LDAP, which determines what that user is allowed to access based on policies set by the directory.

LDAP is based on a client-server interaction. The client begins a session with the server, called a “binding”.
The client presents their user credentials which the server can compare against the directory and authorize access based on that user’s attributes.


ldap used for:
resource information lookup (employees, printers, computers)
more reads from ldap client to the ldap server (database) than writes
example:
storying employee username and password in ldap directory server and authenticating against it. (username and password won't change often, therefore write operations are rare)
